README.adoc, before:

[[kithara]]
= kithara image:https://travis-ci.org/xsc/kithara.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/xsc/kithara"]
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:toclevels: 3

*kithara* is a (limited) https://www.rabbitmq.com[RabbitMQ] client for Clojure,
based on https://github.com/jhalterman/lyra[Lyra]. Its specific scope - and
thus source of its limitations - is the simple creation of RabbitMQ-based
 consumers with appropriate recovery and retry facilities.

If you're looking for a more complete RabbitMQ library you should check out
https://github.com/michaelklishin/langohr[langohr].

== Table of Contents

toc::[]

[[usage]]
== Usage

*Leiningen* (via https://clojars.org/kithara[Clojars])

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/kithara.svg["Clojars Project", link="https://clojars.org/kithara"]

*REPL*

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.core :as k])
----

[[quickstart]]
== Quickstart

With kithara you have a handler:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler
  [{:keys [body]}]
  (println "I received a message:" body)
  {:status :ack})
----

Since the handler takes a message and returns a description of what to do with
it, you can wrap it easily:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler-with-nack
  [{:keys [body] :as message}]
  (if (= body "error")
    {:status :nack, :requeue? false}
    (message-handler message)))
----

You turn the handler into a component, adding coercion and a name:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce consumer
  (-> message-handler-with-nack
      (k/consumer {:as :string, :consumer-name "kithara-test"})
      ...))
----

Followed by a channel, a queue, some bindings and a connection:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce consumer
  (-> message-handler-with-nack
      (k/consumer {:as :string, :consumer-name "kithara-test"})
      (k/with-channel {:prefetch-count 256})
      (k/with-queue "kithara-queue" {:exchange "kithara", :routing-keys ["#"]})
      (k/with-connection {:host "localhost", :vhost "/kithara"})) )
----

And you watch it goooooo:

[source,clojure]
----
(alter-var-root #'consumer com.stuartsierra.component/start)
;; => ...
17:37:25.372 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Creating connection cxn-2 to [docker:5672]
17:37:25.390 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created connection cxn-2 to amqp://192.168.59.103:5672/
17:37:25.395 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created channel-1 on cxn-2
17:37:25.410 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created channel-2 on cxn-2
17:37:25.421 [nREPL-worker-0] DEBUG kithara.components.base-consumer - [kithara-test] starting consumer on queue kithara-queue (desired tag: 'kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328') ...
17:37:25.425 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ChannelHandler - Created consumer-kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328 of kithara-queue via channel-2 on cxn-2
I received a message: Hello, World!
17:38:29.819 [rabbitmq-cxn-2-consumer] DEBUG kithara.middlewares.logging - [kithara-test] [kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328] [ack] exchange="kithara", routing-key="test-message", size=13
----

(And then you probably disable some of Lyra's logging.)

[[building-a-consumer]]
== Building a Consumer

kithara is basically a toolbox with components handling RabbitMQ connection,
channel and queue setup. Here you'll see how to combine them.

[[handler]]
=== Handler

A handler is a function. It takes a single map (the message) and produces
another map (the confirmation) specifying how to react to the message, i.e.
whether to `ACK`, `NACK` or `REJECT` it.

==== Message Format

This is an example message:

[source,clojure]
----
{:channel      #object[com.sun.proxy.$Proxy1 0x17cd517c "net.jodah.lyra.config.Config@190abc2d"],
 :body         #object["[B" 0x13d05618 "[B@13d05618"],
 :body-raw     #object["[B" 0x13d05618 "[B@13d05618"],
 :properties   {...},
 :routing-key  "the-routing-key",
 :exchange     "the-exchange",
 :redelivered? false,
 :delivery-tag 33,
 :consumer-tag "kithara:96CDgYbID9a1IlDwDS"}
----

Most of the semantics should be clear, so just a few notes:

- `:body-raw` always contains a byte array with the raw payload.
- `:body` contains a potentially preprocessed payload (see
  <<message-coercion,Message Coercion>>), otherwise it's identical to
`:body-raw`.
- `:properties` represents the message's
  https://www.rabbitmq.com/releases/rabbitmq-java-client/v3.6.1/rabbitmq-java-client-javadoc-3.6.1/com/rabbitmq/client/AMQP.BasicProperties.html[`BasicProperties`].

==== Confirmation Format

The confirmation is a map describing how to react to the message that was
processed, mainly using the `:status` key which can take any of the following
values:

- `:ack` (`ACK` the message)
- `:nack` (`NACK` the message)
- `:reject` (`REJECT` the message)
- `:error` (an exception occured)
- `:done` (the message was explicitly confirmed within the handler)

`:nack`, `:reject` and `:error` also rely on the `:requeue?` key to decide
whether or not to re-add a message to the back of the queue (defaults to `true`
for `NACK`). Additionally, `:message` and `:error` can be given to augment the
log messages printed by the consumer.

An example confirmation could thus be:

[source,clojure]
----
{:status   :nack
 :requeue? false
 :message  "this is unacceptable."}
----

The reliance on pure data for message handling should make your handlers a
little more testable in the long run.

=== Base Consumer

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-consumer[*Documentation*]

Once your handler is ready, you can create the base consumer component. It's not
yet bound to any connection, queue or channel, it just encapsulates the handling
logic.

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer handler)
(k/consumer handler {... options ...})
----

Options can be used to tweak its behaviour a bit.

[[message-coercion]]
==== Message Coercion

The `:as` option specifies a coercer for the incoming payload. It can be one of
the following:

- `:bytes` (default): just use the raw byte array,
- `:string`: convert the byte array to a UTF-8 string,
- a function: apply the function to the byte array,
- any value implementing `kithara.protocols/Coercer`.

So, a consumer that prints every incoming message's `:body` as a string would
be constructed as:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer
  (fn [{:keys [body]}]
    (println body)
    {:status :ack})
  {:as :string})
----

==== Default Confirmation Behaviour

If a handler does not return a map (or a map without the `:status` key) the
message will be confirmed using `ACK`. In the same vein, if the handler throws
an exception the message will be confirmed with `NACK` and requeued.

This can be adjusted using the `:default-confirmation` and `:error-confirmation`
keys, e.g.:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer
  ...
  {:default-confirmation {:status :nack}
   :error-confirmation   {:status :reject}})
----

==== Consumer Name/Tag

It's often useful to be able to identify a consumer, e.g. in the RabbitMQ
management plugin displaying only the consumer tag.

You can thus either set the consumer tag explicitly (using the `:consumer-tag`
option) or you can give your consumer a name (`:consumer-name`) that will be
included in a custom, unique consumer tag chosen by kithara.

[[channels]]
=== Channels

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-channel[*Documentation*]

Consumers have to be bound to a channel before they can be started, which
is easily achieved:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-channel
  consumer
  {:prefetch-count 256})
----

See the documentation for available options. You should set at least
`:prefetch-count`, though, to prevent your consumer from loading more messages
into memory than it can stomach. A shorthand for this can be found in
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-prefetch-channel[`with-prefetch-channel`].

[[queues]]
=== Queues

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-queue[*Documentation*]

Consumers need a queue to receive messages from and that queue is bound to
exchange/routing-key pairs. It can be easily set up:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-queue
  consumer
  "queue-name"
  {:durable?     true
   :exclusive?   false
   :auto-delete? false
   :exchange     "exchange"
   :routing-keys ["#"]})
----

If no options are given, the queue will not be actively declared but expected
to already exist. Note that there are shorthands for commonly used queue types
like
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-server-named-queue[`with-server-named-queue`]
and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-durable-queue[`with-durable-queue`].

=== Connection

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-connection[*Documentation*]

Without a connection to your RabbitMQ cluster there isn't really a lot your
consumer can accomplish. Set it thus up via:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-connection
  consumer
  {:host     "rabbitmq.host.com"
   :vhost    "/kithara"
   :username "..."
   :password "..."})
----

See
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.config.html#var-connection[`kithara.config/connection`]
for endpoint configuration and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.config.html#var-behaviour[`kithara.config/behaviour`]
for recovery/retry semantics. By default, the connection will employ backing-off
recovery (up to 60s) and immediate and unlimited retry.

[[common-messaging-patterns]]
== Common Messaging Patterns and Scenarios

Kithara aims to provide easily usable implementations for common messaging
patterns and scenarios.

[[environment]]
=== Environment and External Resources

Usually, messages trigger some kind of change to the world, i.e. writing to a DB,
starting of some pre-defined task, etc ... And the "world" these changes rely on
needs to be available to the message handler. There are several ways
this can be achieved.

==== Closures

The message handler function can close over its dependencies, no
matter whether they are available as global variables (like in
https://github.com/tolitius/mount[mount]) or parameters to a constructor
function:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn build-message-handler
  [database]
  (fn [message]
    (write! database message)
    {:status :ack}))

(defonce closure-rabbitmq-consumer
  (-> (build-message-handler my-database)
      (k/consumer ...)
      ...))
----

==== Dependency Injection

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-env[*Documentation*]

The environment can be passed to the message handler directly
within the message map, facilitated by kithara's `with-env` function:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler
  [{:keys [env] :as message}]
  (write! (:database env) message)
  {:status :ack})

(defonce injection-rabbitmq-consumer
  (-> message-handler
      (k/consumer ...)
      ...
      (k/with-env {:database my-database})))
----

The `with-env` wrapper plays nicely with the
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[component] library since it allows
for arbitrary keys to be added to the environment using plain `assoc`, making
it possible to employ consumers in component systems:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce system
  (component/system-map
    :consumer (-> message-handler
                  (k/consumer ...)
                  ...
                  (k/with-env)
                  (component/using [:database]))
    :database (map->DB {...})))
----

Note that `with-env` has to be on the top-level for this to work.

==== Dependency Injection using Wrapper Component

A combination of the two previous approaches uses an outer component to gather
the environment, then builds the consumer internally on startup.
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[peripheral]'s `defcomponent` will let
you formulate this concisely (but note that it can be done with plain
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[component] just as well):

[source,clojure]
----
(defcomponent Consumer [database]
  :message-handler    (build-message-handler database)
  :component/consumer (-> message-handler
                          (k/consumer ...)
                          ...))

(defonce system
  (component/system-map
    :consumer (component/using (map->Consumer {}) [:database])
    :database (map->DB {...})))
----

[[multiple-consumers]]
=== Multiple Consumers

Every `with-*` function takes either a single component or a seq of them,
allowing your topology to "branch out" however you desire.

For example, you can parallelise processing by adding multiple identical
consumers to a channel:

[source,clojure]
----
(-> (repeat 5 (k/consumer ...))
    (k/with-channel ...)
    ...)
----

Although, following the one-channel-per-thread model, it should probably look
like this:

[source,clojure]
----
(-> (k/consumer ...))
    (k/with-channel ...)
    (->> (repeat 5))
    ...)
----

It would be just as easy to have two completely independent consumers on the
same connection:

[source,clojure]
----
(def consumer-1
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (k/with-channel ...)
      (k/with-queue "consumer-1")))

(def consumer-2
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (k/with-channel ...)
      (k/with-queue "consumer-2")))

(def consumer
  (k/with-connection
    [consumer-1 consumer-2]
    ...))
----

You have full control over who shares what, on each layer of the consumer stack.

[[multi-threaded-consumers]]
=== Multi-Threaded Consumers

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.threads.html[*Documentation*]

In some cases you might want to declare just a single consumer but dispatch
message processing to a number of worker threads. This functionality is offered
by
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.threads.html#var-with-threads[`with-threads`]
which will setup and teardown a fixed-size thread pool for one or more
consumers:

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.patterns.threads :refer [with-threads])

(defonce rabbitmq-consumer-with-backoff
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (with-threads 4)
      (k/with-queue ...)
      ...))
----

[[dead-letter-backoff]]
=== Backoff via Dead-Letter-Queues

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html[*Documentation*]

The two wrappers
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html#var-with-dead-letter-backoff[`with-dead-letter-backoff`]
and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html#var-with-durable-dead-letter-backoff[`with-durable-dead-letter-backoff`]
provide delayed requeuing of messages by dispatching them to a secondary queue,
the "dead letter queue", from which they'll eventually be republished. Both
wrappers have to be applied after <<queues,`with-queue`>>.

The simplest version infers names of additional exchanges/queues using the
original consumer queue:

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff :as dlx])

(defonce rabbitmq-consumer-with-backoff
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (dlx/with-dead-letter-backoff)
      (k/with-queue ...)
      ...))
----

[[lower-level-api]]
== Lower-Level RabbitMQ API

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/rabbitmq/index.html[*Documentation*]

Kithara wraps the official Java RabbitMQ client - but only as far as necessary
to build consumers (and patterns). You can access those functions using
the `kithara.rabbitmq.*` namespaces.

(Alghtough, if you crave this level of control you should probably use
something like langohr.)

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!

1. Create a new branch where you apply your changes (ideally also adding tests).
2. Make sure existing tests are passing.
3. Open a Pull Request on Github.

[[license]]
== License

....
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Yannick Scherer

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
....

Commit message:

add example of using a wrapper component and 'with-env'.

README.adoc, after:

[[kithara]]
= kithara image:https://travis-ci.org/xsc/kithara.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/xsc/kithara"]
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:toclevels: 3

*kithara* is a (limited) https://www.rabbitmq.com[RabbitMQ] client for Clojure,
based on https://github.com/jhalterman/lyra[Lyra]. Its specific scope - and
thus source of its limitations - is the simple creation of RabbitMQ-based
 consumers with appropriate recovery and retry facilities.

If you're looking for a more complete RabbitMQ library you should check out
https://github.com/michaelklishin/langohr[langohr].

== Table of Contents

toc::[]

[[usage]]
== Usage

*Leiningen* (via https://clojars.org/kithara[Clojars])

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/kithara.svg["Clojars Project", link="https://clojars.org/kithara"]

*REPL*

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.core :as k])
----

[[quickstart]]
== Quickstart

With kithara you have a handler:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler
  [{:keys [body]}]
  (println "I received a message:" body)
  {:status :ack})
----

Since the handler takes a message and returns a description of what to do with
it, you can wrap it easily:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler-with-nack
  [{:keys [body] :as message}]
  (if (= body "error")
    {:status :nack, :requeue? false}
    (message-handler message)))
----

You turn the handler into a component, adding coercion and a name:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce consumer
  (-> message-handler-with-nack
      (k/consumer {:as :string, :consumer-name "kithara-test"})
      ...))
----

Followed by a channel, a queue, some bindings and a connection:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce consumer
  (-> message-handler-with-nack
      (k/consumer {:as :string, :consumer-name "kithara-test"})
      (k/with-channel {:prefetch-count 256})
      (k/with-queue "kithara-queue" {:exchange "kithara", :routing-keys ["#"]})
      (k/with-connection {:host "localhost", :vhost "/kithara"})) )
----

And you watch it goooooo:

[source,clojure]
----
(alter-var-root #'consumer com.stuartsierra.component/start)
;; => ...
17:37:25.372 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Creating connection cxn-2 to [docker:5672]
17:37:25.390 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created connection cxn-2 to amqp://192.168.59.103:5672/
17:37:25.395 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created channel-1 on cxn-2
17:37:25.410 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ConnectionHandler - Created channel-2 on cxn-2
17:37:25.421 [nREPL-worker-0] DEBUG kithara.components.base-consumer - [kithara-test] starting consumer on queue kithara-queue (desired tag: 'kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328') ...
17:37:25.425 [nREPL-worker-0] INFO net.jodah.lyra.internal.ChannelHandler - Created consumer-kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328 of kithara-queue via channel-2 on cxn-2
I received a message: Hello, World!
17:38:29.819 [rabbitmq-cxn-2-consumer] DEBUG kithara.middlewares.logging - [kithara-test] [kithara-test:96CQWOfPfKf8tjQ328] [ack] exchange="kithara", routing-key="test-message", size=13
----

(And then you probably disable some of Lyra's logging.)

[[building-a-consumer]]
== Building a Consumer

kithara is basically a toolbox with components handling RabbitMQ connection,
channel and queue setup. Here you'll see how to combine them.

[[handler]]
=== Handler

A handler is a function. It takes a single map (the message) and produces
another map (the confirmation) specifying how to react to the message, i.e.
whether to `ACK`, `NACK` or `REJECT` it.

==== Message Format

This is an example message:

[source,clojure]
----
{:channel      #object[com.sun.proxy.$Proxy1 0x17cd517c "net.jodah.lyra.config.Config@190abc2d"],
 :body         #object["[B" 0x13d05618 "[B@13d05618"],
 :body-raw     #object["[B" 0x13d05618 "[B@13d05618"],
 :properties   {...},
 :routing-key  "the-routing-key",
 :exchange     "the-exchange",
 :redelivered? false,
 :delivery-tag 33,
 :consumer-tag "kithara:96CDgYbID9a1IlDwDS"}
----

Most of the semantics should be clear, so just a few notes:

- `:body-raw` always contains a byte array with the raw payload.
- `:body` contains a potentially preprocessed payload (see
  <<message-coercion,Message Coercion>>), otherwise it's identical to
`:body-raw`.
- `:properties` represents the message's
  https://www.rabbitmq.com/releases/rabbitmq-java-client/v3.6.1/rabbitmq-java-client-javadoc-3.6.1/com/rabbitmq/client/AMQP.BasicProperties.html[`BasicProperties`].

==== Confirmation Format

The confirmation is a map describing how to react to the message that was
processed, mainly using the `:status` key which can take any of the following
values:

- `:ack` (`ACK` the message)
- `:nack` (`NACK` the message)
- `:reject` (`REJECT` the message)
- `:error` (an exception occured)
- `:done` (the message was explicitly confirmed within the handler)

`:nack`, `:reject` and `:error` also rely on the `:requeue?` key to decide
whether or not to re-add a message to the back of the queue (defaults to `true`
for `NACK`). Additionally, `:message` and `:error` can be given to augment the
log messages printed by the consumer.

An example confirmation could thus be:

[source,clojure]
----
{:status   :nack
 :requeue? false
 :message  "this is unacceptable."}
----

The reliance on pure data for message handling should make your handlers a
little more testable in the long run.

=== Base Consumer

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-consumer[*Documentation*]

Once your handler is ready, you can create the base consumer component. It's not
yet bound to any connection, queue or channel, it just encapsulates the handling
logic.

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer handler)
(k/consumer handler {... options ...})
----

Options can be used to tweak its behaviour a bit.

[[message-coercion]]
==== Message Coercion

The `:as` option specifies a coercer for the incoming payload. It can be one of
the following:

- `:bytes` (default): just use the raw byte array,
- `:string`: convert the byte array to a UTF-8 string,
- a function: apply the function to the byte array,
- any value implementing `kithara.protocols/Coercer`.

So, a consumer that prints every incoming message's `:body` as a string would
be constructed as:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer
  (fn [{:keys [body]}]
    (println body)
    {:status :ack})
  {:as :string})
----

==== Default Confirmation Behaviour

If a handler does not return a map (or a map without the `:status` key) the
message will be confirmed using `ACK`. In the same vein, if the handler throws
an exception the message will be confirmed with `NACK` and requeued.

This can be adjusted using the `:default-confirmation` and `:error-confirmation`
keys, e.g.:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/consumer
  ...
  {:default-confirmation {:status :nack}
   :error-confirmation   {:status :reject}})
----

==== Consumer Name/Tag

It's often useful to be able to identify a consumer, e.g. in the RabbitMQ
management plugin displaying only the consumer tag.

You can thus either set the consumer tag explicitly (using the `:consumer-tag`
option) or you can give your consumer a name (`:consumer-name`) that will be
included in a custom, unique consumer tag chosen by kithara.

[[channels]]
=== Channels

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-channel[*Documentation*]

Consumers have to be bound to a channel before they can be started, which
is easily achieved:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-channel
  consumer
  {:prefetch-count 256})
----

See the documentation for available options. You should set at least
`:prefetch-count`, though, to prevent your consumer from loading more messages
into memory than it can stomach. A shorthand for this can be found in
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-prefetch-channel[`with-prefetch-channel`].

[[queues]]
=== Queues

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-queue[*Documentation*]

Consumers need a queue to receive messages from and that queue is bound to
exchange/routing-key pairs. It can be easily set up:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-queue
  consumer
  "queue-name"
  {:durable?     true
   :exclusive?   false
   :auto-delete? false
   :exchange     "exchange"
   :routing-keys ["#"]})
----

If no options are given, the queue will not be actively declared but expected
to already exist. Note that there are shorthands for commonly used queue types
like
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-server-named-queue[`with-server-named-queue`]
and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-durable-queue[`with-durable-queue`].

=== Connection

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-connection[*Documentation*]

Without a connection to your RabbitMQ cluster there isn't really a lot your
consumer can accomplish. Set it thus up via:

[source,clojure]
----
(k/with-connection
  consumer
  {:host     "rabbitmq.host.com"
   :vhost    "/kithara"
   :username "..."
   :password "..."})
----

See
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.config.html#var-connection[`kithara.config/connection`]
for endpoint configuration and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.config.html#var-behaviour[`kithara.config/behaviour`]
for recovery/retry semantics. By default, the connection will employ backing-off
recovery (up to 60s) and immediate and unlimited retry.

[[common-messaging-patterns]]
== Common Messaging Patterns and Scenarios

Kithara aims to provide easily usable implementations for common messaging
patterns and scenarios.

[[environment]]
=== Environment and External Resources

Usually, messages trigger some kind of change to the world, i.e. writing to a DB,
starting of some pre-defined task, etc ... And the "world" these changes rely on
needs to be available to the message handler. There are several ways
this can be achieved.

==== Closures

The message handler function can close over its dependencies, no
matter whether they are available as global variables (like in
https://github.com/tolitius/mount[mount]) or parameters to a constructor
function:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn build-message-handler
  [database]
  (fn [message]
    (write! database message)
    {:status :ack}))

(defonce closure-rabbitmq-consumer
  (-> (build-message-handler my-database)
      (k/consumer ...)
      ...))
----

==== Dependency Injection

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.core.html#var-with-env[*Documentation*]

The environment can be passed to the message handler directly
within the message map, facilitated by kithara's `with-env` function:

[source,clojure]
----
(defn message-handler
  [{:keys [env] :as message}]
  (write! (:database env) message)
  {:status :ack})

(defonce injection-rabbitmq-consumer
  (-> message-handler
      (k/consumer ...)
      ...
      (k/with-env {:database my-database})))
----

The `with-env` wrapper plays nicely with the
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[component] library since it allows
for arbitrary keys to be added to the environment using plain `assoc`, making
it possible to employ consumers in component systems:

[source,clojure]
----
(defonce system
  (component/system-map
    :consumer (-> message-handler
                  (k/consumer ...)
                  ...
                  (k/with-env)
                  (component/using [:database]))
    :database (map->DB {...})))
----

Note that `with-env` has to be on the top-level for this to work.

==== Wrapper Component (recommended)

A combination of the two previous approaches uses an outer component to gather
the environment, then builds the consumer internally on startup.
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[peripheral]'s `defcomponent` will let
you formulate this concisely (but note that it can be done with plain
https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[component] just as well):

[source,clojure]
----
(defcomponent Consumer [database]
  :message-handler    (build-message-handler database)
  :component/consumer (-> message-handler
                          (k/consumer ...)
                          ...))

(defonce system
  (component/system-map
    :consumer (component/using (map->Consumer {}) [:database])
    :database (map->DB {...})))
----

Or using `with-env`:

[source,clojure]
----
(defcomponent Consumer [database]
  :component/consumer
  (-> message-handler
      (k/consumer ...)
      ...
      (k/with-env {:database database})))
----

This approach arguably offers the most flexibility since building the stack is
explicit and thus completely under your control.

[[multiple-consumers]]
=== Multiple Consumers

Every `with-*` function takes either a single component or a seq of them,
allowing your topology to "branch out" however you desire.

For example, you can parallelise processing by adding multiple identical
consumers to a channel:

[source,clojure]
----
(-> (repeat 5 (k/consumer ...))
    (k/with-channel ...)
    ...)
----

Although, following the one-channel-per-thread model, it should probably look
like this:

[source,clojure]
----
(-> (k/consumer ...))
    (k/with-channel ...)
    (->> (repeat 5))
    ...)
----

It would be just as easy to have two completely independent consumers on the
same connection:

[source,clojure]
----
(def consumer-1
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (k/with-channel ...)
      (k/with-queue "consumer-1")))

(def consumer-2
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (k/with-channel ...)
      (k/with-queue "consumer-2")))

(def consumer
  (k/with-connection
    [consumer-1 consumer-2]
    ...))
----

You have full control over who shares what, on each layer of the consumer stack.

[[multi-threaded-consumers]]
=== Multi-Threaded Consumers

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.threads.html[*Documentation*]

In some cases you might want to declare just a single consumer but dispatch
message processing to a number of worker threads. This functionality is offered
by
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.threads.html#var-with-threads[`with-threads`]
which will setup and teardown a fixed-size thread pool for one or more
consumers:

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.patterns.threads :refer [with-threads])

(defonce rabbitmq-consumer-with-backoff
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (with-threads 4)
      (k/with-queue ...)
      ...))
----

[[dead-letter-backoff]]
=== Backoff via Dead-Letter-Queues

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html[*Documentation*]

The two wrappers
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html#var-with-dead-letter-backoff[`with-dead-letter-backoff`]
and
http://xsc.github.io/kithara/kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff.html#var-with-durable-dead-letter-backoff[`with-durable-dead-letter-backoff`]
provide delayed requeuing of messages by dispatching them to a secondary queue,
the "dead letter queue", from which they'll eventually be republished. Both
wrappers have to be applied after <<queues,`with-queue`>>.

The simplest version infers names of additional exchanges/queues using the
original consumer queue:

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[kithara.patterns.dead-letter-backoff :as dlx])

(defonce rabbitmq-consumer-with-backoff
  (-> (k/consumer ...)
      (dlx/with-dead-letter-backoff)
      (k/with-queue ...)
      ...))
----

[[lower-level-api]]
== Lower-Level RabbitMQ API

http://xsc.github.io/kithara/rabbitmq/index.html[*Documentation*]

Kithara wraps the official Java RabbitMQ client - but only as far as necessary
to build consumers (and patterns). You can access those functions using
the `kithara.rabbitmq.*` namespaces.

(Alghtough, if you crave this level of control you should probably use
something like langohr.)

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!

1. Create a new branch where you apply your changes (ideally also adding tests).
2. Make sure existing tests are passing.
3. Open a Pull Request on Github.

[[license]]
== License

....
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Yannick Scherer

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
....
